# 2019-08-18

## Notes on 0-1 by Peter Thiel

### Takeaways:

#### The Four Temperaments
* The two dichotomies used for most enterprises and people:
 * Optimist versus pessimist
 * Definite expectations versus indefinite.


 Peter expresses that people, enterprises, and epochs fall into one of the four different combinations of the above. Indefinite pessimism (being sure that things are going to get worse, but not knowing how) can lead to the pessimistic prediction, so at least it is right. Definite pessimism can lead to preparation because it leads one to envision some calamity and prepare for it. Definite optimism is probably the must useful of the dispositions and characterizes industry, especially the way Ayn Rand wrote about it. It implies positive expectations that are *definite* because one will make them so. Great scientists also have this temperament. Indefinite optimism characterizes our current time in America - the assumption that things are just going to get better without our own action.

 Looking at this last temperament - it's a sign of a decadent society on its way down. See the analogy

 > History is the sound of silk slippers going down stairs and wooden shoes going up stairs.



#### Seven Questions:

1. Do you have a useful technology or a breakthrough way of doing things?
2. Is this the right time?
3. Are you starting with a monopoly in a small area?
4. Do you have the right team?
5. Do you have a way to not just create, but deliver your product?
6. Will the market be defensible in 10 or 20 years.
7. Is it an opportunity that others haven't seen?


#### Complementarity Between Machine and people

One of the things he brought up is the dichotomy between technological advance, and the advance of globalization. He points out that there is a fear of the advancement of technology which is related back to NAFTA - they think that there is going to be the same replacement of workers from machines, as there was from Mexico. Instead, Peter points out that the relationship is likely to be complementary - people and machine build upon each others' strengths. They don't directly compete.

#### The Importance of Secrets

Peter asks "why has so much of our society come to believe that there are not hard secrets left?"

Answer:
1. Incrementalism - the believe that all change comes incrementally ()
IE evolution) as opposed to the results of paradigm shifts (stagecoach to car).
2. Risk aversion - if one is wrong, one looks foolish. However, if one is afraid of this, then a life of being an also-ran is likely (no original thought).
3. Complacency - social elites have no need to be dynamic because they are fine with the way that things are now.
4. Assumption of flatness - if one believes that the world is a large, homogenous "mush-pile", then one is likely to believe that any really useful idea would have already been though of or tried by someone else.
